# Self Check 10

## 1. Definitions and Short Answers - functions
1. In Python, suppose you have the code
```python
return [13, 25, 'hello', 'z']
```
Which of the following are objects?
- `return` (Not object)  
- `13` (Object)  
- `25` (Object)  
- `'hello'` (Object)  
- `'z'` (Object)  
- `[13, 25, 'hello', 'z']` (Object)  

2. In Python, do the following keywords or built-in identifiers refer to objects?
- `if`  
- `print` (YES)  
- `len` (YES)  
- `str` (YES)  
- `==`  

3. How can you make a clone of an object?

> ```python
> import copy
> obj_2 = copy.deepcopy(obj_1)
> ```

4. What is a class?  How is a class related to an instance?

> A class refers to the definition of attributes and methods.  
> An instance refers to the object created based on a class.  

5. What is the term for a function call whose name is the name of a class?

> Constructor

6. How is a method different from a function?

> Method interacts with an object.

7. When you do
```python
import os
L = os.listdir()
```
are you making a method call with os.listdir(), or are you making a function call?  Why?

> No, `os` is a module and `listdir()` is a function inside `os`.  

8. In Python, suppose you have a class defined as
```python
class Point:
    def __init__(self, x, y):
        self.x = x
        self.y = y
    def move_by(self, dx, dy):
        self.x += dx
        self.y += dy
```

- How do you instantiate a point with a coordinate of (2, 3) and assign it to the variable p?

> ```python
> p = Point(2, 3)
> ```

- What are the two attributes created by the constructor of this point?  

> `x` and `y`  

- The `move_by()` method defines three parameters (self, dx, dy) but the call takes only two arguments, such as `p.move_by(-2, 7)`.  Why?

> `self` refers to the referenced instance itself.  

- Is it ever okay to declare an instance method without any parameter, such as 
```
    def sayhi():
        print("I am a point")
```
?

> Declaring such instance method is acceptable in Python, but instances have no way to access these methods.  

9. How would you define the __repr__ method for the Point class above?  What should it display if p = Point(2, 3) and you type p at the interactive prompt?

> ```python
> class Point:
>     def __init__(self, x, y):
>         self.x = x
>         self.y = y
>     def __repr__(self):
>         return f'Point({self.x}, {self.y})'
> ```

10. Suppose in your class definition, 
```
 1  class Point:
 2      def __init__(self, x, y):
 3          self.x = x
 4          self.y = y
 5      def move_by(self, dx, dy):
 6          self.x += dx
 7          self.y += dy
 8      m = move_by
 9      @property
10      def area_of_box(self)
11          return self.x * self.y
```

- What is the effect of line 8?

> Creating an alias `m` for `move_by` method.  

- What type of construct is the @property on line 9?

> A decorator that enables derived attributes to be accessed in read-only and without parentheses.  

- With line 9, how should you invoke the code for area_of_box on a Point object p?

> ```python
> p.area_of_box
> ```

- What is the purpose of applying the @property decorator here?

> Allow derived attributes to be accessed in read-only and without parenthesis.  

11. Suppose you have  

```python
>>> p = Point(2, 3)
>>> q = Point(4, 5)
>>> p.z = 7
```

- What happens when you try to read the value of `q.z`?

> `AttributeErrror: 'Point' object has no attribute 'z'`  

- if you set `q.z = 10`, what happens to the value of `p.z`?  

> It remains the same.  

- Is it okay if you do Point.count = 0 next?  If so, what kind of attribute is it called?  

> Yes, `Point.count = 0` is perfectly legal, and it will be a class attribute of Point.  

- Assuming the assignment Point.count = 0 is allowed, what is the value of p.count?  Is it defined?

> `p.count` is 0

- What is the value of dir(p)?  Does it include 'count' as a key in this dict?  What about dir(q)?

> `dir(p)` is `['__class__', '__delattr__', '__dict__', '__dir__', '__doc__', '__eq__', '__format__', '__ge__', '__getattribute__', '__gt__', '__hash__', '__init__', '__init_subclass__', '__le__', '__lt__', '__module__', '__ne__', '__new__', '__reduce__', '__reduce_ex__', '__repr__', '__setattr__', '__sizeof__', '__str__', '__subclasshook__', '__weakref__', 'area_of_box', 'count', 'm', 'move_by', 'x', 'y']`  
> `count` does not appear in `p.__dict__`, the same goes for `q.__dict__`  

12. If you want your constructor to increment a class attribute to count the number of instances created so far,
- How should you initialize the class attribute count = 0?

> ```python
> class some_class:
>     count = 0
> ```

- How should you increment the class attribute count in the constructor? As self.count += 1 or as Point.count += 1?  Why?

> `Point.count += 1`  
> If `self.count` was referenced, an instance variable is referenced.  

13. Why is it better to define setter/getter methods than allowing user code to modify the attributes directly?  For instance, suppose you have a DateTime class that allows you to do
```python
>>> dt = DateTime(year=2019, month=11, day=11, hour=9, \
...               minute=8, second=7)
>>> dt.set_year(2023)
```
Why would it be preferred, compared to
```python
>>> dt.year = 2023
```
?

> Implementation-oriented reasons: setting limits on values, data structures, etc.  

14. In DateTime class shown on slide #35, the attributes are named with an underscore in front, such as `_year`, `_month`, `_day`, etc.  What is the reason for this?

> Protect attribute from outside access.  

15. In the `DateTime` class, the `check_and_set()` method is defined to be

```python
def check_and_set(self, field_name, field_value, L, U):
    if not (L <= field_value <= U):

        raise ValueError(f'{field_name} must be {L}..{U}')

    self.__dict__['_'+field_name] = field_value
```

- What is the purpose of `self.__dict__['_'+field_name] = field_value`? If `field_name` is `'year'`, `self` is `p`, and `field_value` is `2010`, then what attribute of `p` gets assigned the value `2010`?

> `p._year = 2010`

- Why is it a good idea to write `check_and_set()` as a method that is called by `set_year()`, `set_month()`, `set_day()`, etc methods to assign value via `self.__dict__[]` instead of assigning to the attributes `self._year`, `self._month`, `self._day` directly?

> Ensures the set value lies in a specific valid range.  

16. Assume you have a getter and a setter for the instance attribute _month in the DateTime class:
```python
 1  class DateTime:
 2      def get_month(self):
 3          ...
 4      def set_month(self, mo):
 5          ...
 6      month = property(lambda self: self.get_month(),
 7                   lambda self, v: self.set_month(v))
```
What is the effect of lines 6-7?  Suppose you have a variable dt which is an instance of DateTime, what method gets called when you do
```python
print(dt.month)
```
and
```python 
dt.month = 5
```
?

> ```python
> print(dt.month)
> ```  
> uses
> ```python
> lambda self: self.get_month
> ```
> while
> ```python
> dt.month = 5
> ```
> uses
 > ```python
> lambda self, v: self.set_month(v)
> ```


17. Which of the following correctly describes a class method?  Assume you want to declare one named `set_year_range()` for the `DateTime` class and it takes parameters for the lower and upper bounds.

- you need to use the decorator `@classmethod` on the line immediately before `def set_year_range()` method definition to make it a class method

> TRUE

- As long as you have the @classmethod decorator, the class method works just like an instance method because you would declare it as
```python
def set_year_range(self, lower, upper):
```
and `self` refers to the instance that you invoke the method on.

> FALSE

- In addition to `@classmethod` decorator, you also need to declare the first parameter as `cls` instead of `self` because it refers to the class object instead of the instance object

> TRUE

- Even though you want cls to refer to the class object, you still invoke the class method on an instance object (e.g., named p)
```python
p.set_year_range(100, 3000)
```
and Python will pass the class object for `p` as the `cls` parameter.

> TRUE

18. Consider the leap-year function
```python
def leap(year):
    return (year % 400 == 0) or \
           ((year % 4 == 0) and (year % 100 != 0))
```
and you would like to define it as a method inside the class DateTime rather than as a function outside the class.
- define it as an instance method

> ```python
> def leap(self, year):
>     return (year % 400 == 0) or ((year % 4 == 0) and (year % 100 != 0))
> ```

- define it as a class method

> ```python
> @classmethod
> def leap(cls, year):
>     return (year % 400 == 0) or ((year % 4 == 0) and (year % 100 != 0))
> ```

- define it as a static method

> ```python
> @staticmethod
> def leap(year):
>     return (year % 400 == 0) or ((year % 4 == 0) and (year % 100 != 0))
> ```

- Is there any difference in how you would call the leap method?

> No

- Which of the three methods would be the preferred way and why?

> Static method, because the main objective and purpose of the `leap` function is not to interact with the instance or object itself, but mainly for utility.  

