# Self Check 11

## 1. Definitions and Short Answers - functions

1.  In Python, `ArithmeticError` is a base class of `FloatingPointError`, `OverflowError`, and `ZeroDivisionError`.  So, 
- Does `ArithmeticError` inherit from `FloatingPointError` ? Or does `FloatingPointError` inherit from `ArithmeticError`?

> The latter is true.  

- Does `FloatingPointError` inherit from `OverflowError`? Or `ZeroDivisionError`?  Or is there any inheritance relationship between them?

> No inheritanc relationship between them.  

- Is `ZeroDivisionError` a superclass of `ArithmeticError`?  Or the other way around? `[subclass]`  

> The reverse is true.  


2. Let `a`, `f`, `o`, and `z` respectively denote an instance of `ArithmeticError`, `FloatingPointError`, `OverflowError`, and `ZeroDivisionError`.  
- Is `a` an instance of `FloatingPointError`?

> False
> ```python
> isinstance(a, FloatingPointError)
> ```

- Is `f` an instance of `ArithmeticError`?

> True
> ```python
> isinstance(f, ArithmeticError)
> ```

- Does `z` inherit from `ZeroDivisionError`?  Or what is the correct word for the relationship? `[is an instance of]`

> No, `z` is an instance of `ZeroDivisionError`

- Does `o` inherit from `ArithmeticError`?

> `o` is an instance of `OverflowError` that inherits from `ArithmeticError`.  

3. Which of the following evaluates to True?
- `isinstance(f, ArithmeticError)` (**TRUE**)  
- `isinstance(z, FloatingPointError)` (**FALSE**)  
- `isinstance(a, ZeroDivisionError)` (**FALSE**)  
- `issubclass(OverflowError, ArithmeticError)` (**TRUE**)  
- `issubclass(FloatingPointError, ZeroDivisionError)` (**FALSE**)  
- `issubclass(ArithmeticError, ZeroDivisionError)` (**FALSE**)  


4. Suppose you want to define a class named MyList by subclassing from the built-in list class.  
```python
 1  class MyList(list):
 2      def __repr__(self):
 3          return self.__class__.__name__ + '(' + _____ + ')'
```

- This class does not define the  __init__() method.  Does this mean you can't call MyList as a constructor?  If you can call MyList as a constructor, what method is actually called?  `[you can call MyList as a constructor. the arguments are the same as those you pass to a list() constructor.  It inherits the constructor from its superclass, namely list's __init__() method.]`

> the `list` class' constructor (`__init__` special method) will be invoked instead.  

- By defining the __repr__() method in MyList class, what happens to the base class's (i.e., list class's) __repr__() method?  Is it replaced?  Or does it continue to exist? `[both __repr__() exist. It is just shadowed while inside MyList. That is, MyList's __repr__ will be found first and used, but list's __repr__ continues to exist, unaffected and unmodified.]`

> the `list` class' `__repr__()` method will not be replaced, it is just overshadowed by `MyList`'s defined `__repr_()`.  

- How does MyList's __repr__() method invoke its superclass list's __repr__() method to render the actual list content as constructor argument?  `[super().__repr__()]`

> ```python
> super().__repr__()
> ```

4. If you define a `find()` method in MyList class, 
- Does it need to call the list's `find()` method?  `[no]`

> It does not need to call the list's `find()` method.  

- Does it automatically call list's `find()` method? `[no]`

> No, list's `find()` method is overshadowed by the MyList's `find()`.  

- If so, is list's find() method automatically called before or after MyList's find() method?  `[n/a]`. If not, how can MyList's find() call its base class's find()? [super().find(val)]

> ```python
> super().find(val)
> ```

6. MyList's sort() method is defined as follows:

```python
 1  class MyList(list):
 2      # __repr__() and find() not shown
 3      def sort(self):
 4          D ={'NoneType': 0, 'int': 1, 'float': 1, 'str': 2,
 5              'tuple': 3, 'list': 4}
 6          return super().sort(key=lambda x: \
 7                         (D.get(type(x).__name__, 5), x)),
 8                         reverse=reverse)
 9      # additional definition not shown
```

- What does `type(x).__name__` do? 

> `type(x).__name__` returns the current class name.  

- What is the value of 
	- `type(3).__name__`? (`'int'`)  
	- `type((12, 34)).__name__`? (`'tuple`)  
	- `type('hello').__name__`? (`'str'`)  
	- `type({}).__name__`? (`'dict'`)  

- Given the value of D defined on lines 4-5, what does `D.get(k, v)` do and how is it different from `D[k]`? 

> `D.get(k,v)` method: If `k`is not defined in `D.keys()`, `v` is returned instead.  
> `D[k]` method: If `k` is not defined in `D.keys()`, an error will be thrown.  

- What is the value of
	- `D.get(type(3).__name__, 5)` (`1`)  
	- `D.get(type((12, 34)).__name__, 5)` (`3`)  
	- `D.get(type('hello').__name__, 5)` (`2`)  
	- `D.get(type([]).__name__, 5)` (`4`)  
	- `D.get(type(3+2j).__name__, 5)` (`5`)  
	- `D.get(type({}).__name__, 5)` (`5`)  

- Let
```python
k = lambda x:(D.get(type(x).__name__, 5),x) 
L = [7.4, 2, 'world', 'bye', (13, 24), (14, 28), None]
```
, then what is the value of
```python
list(map(k, L))
```
?

> ```python
> [(1, 7.4), (1, 2), (2, 'world'), (2, 'bye'), (3, (13, 24)), (3, (14, 28)), (0, None)]
> ```
`ans: [(1, 7.4), (1, 2), (2, 'world'), (2, 'bye'), (3, (13, 24)), (3, (14, 28)), (0, None)]`

and what is the result of 
list(sorted(map(k, L)))
?

> ```python  
> [(0, None), (1, 2), (1, 7.4), (2, 'bye), (2, 'world'), (3, (13, 24)), (3, (14, 28))]
> ```

`ans: [(0, None), (1, 2), (1, 7.4), (2, 'bye'), (2, 'world'), (3, (13, 24)), (3, (14, 28))]`

7.  In the revised version of MyList class's sort method, 

```python
 1  class MyList(list):
 2      # __repr__() and find() not shown
 3      def sort(self, key=None, reverse=False):
 4          D ={'NoneType': 0, 'int': 1, 'float': 1, 'str': 2,
 5              'tuple': 3, 'list': 4}
 6          return super().sort(key=lambda x: \
 7                         (D.get(type(x).__name__, 5), \
 8                         key(x) if key is not None else x),\
 9                        reverse=reverse)
10      # additional definition not shown
```

- What is the meaning of line 9, `reverse=reverse` in this context?

> The left `reverse` is the formal parameter of `super().sort()` while the right `reverse` is the actual parameter of `super().sort()` and is the formal parameter of `MyList.sort()`.  

`[ans: this is to pass a parameter by name.  The callee list's parameter named reverse (left hand side of the equal sign) gets the value of the expression reverse, which is the caller's (i.e., MyList's sort()'s) parameter named reverse.`

- If the caller does not pass a `key` parameter on line 3, then what is the value of the expression 
```python
lambda x: key(x) if key is not None else x
```
? `[lambda x: x]`

> ```python
> lambda x: x
> ```

- if the caller passes a callable object to the key parameter on line 3, then what is the value of the expression
```python
lambda x: key(x) if key is not None else x
```
? [lambda x: key(x)]

> ```python
> lambda x: key(x)
> ```

8. In the `ColorPoint` class:

```python
 1  class Point:
 2      def __init__(self, x, y):
 3          self._x = x
 4          self._y = y
 5      def __repr__(self):
 6          return __class__.__name__ + \
 7              repr((self._x, self._y))
 8  class ColorPoint(Point):
 9      def __init__(self, x, y, color):
10          super().__init__(x, y)
11          self._color = color
12      def __repr__(self):
13          return __class__.__name__ +\
14              repr((self._x, self._y, self._color))
```

- What is the purpose of line 10?  

> Initialize the base class `Point` in order to initialize its base attributes.  

`ans: [calls the base class's constructor on the object being constructed to initialize the base class's attributes]`

- After line 10, what attributes are defined in self?  `[self._x and self._y]`

> `self._x` and `self._y`

- If ColorPoint class doesn't define its own `__repr__()` but instead chooses to inherit it, what will be printed on the line below?

```
>>> p = Point(2, 3)
>>> p
Point(2, 3)
>>> q = ColorPoint(4, 5, 'black')
>>> q
____________
```

Does it print Point(4, 5)? ColorPoint(4, 5)?  or something else?

> ```python
> Point(4, 5)  
> ```

9. What is the meaning of polymorphism in a programming language like Python? Does it mean an object can take on different names?  Or does it mean a name can refer to one of different possible objects?  

> Polymorphism means that a name may refer to one of different possible objects.  

10. Why is the built-in `str()` considered an overloaded function?  

> Because the built-in `str()` can receive parameters with different classes.  

11. What is the meaning of operator overloading?

> Allow operator to interact with many different classes.  

12. To overload operators +, -, *, / for the Point class above, what do you have to declare?

> ```python
> def __add__(self, other):
> 	...
> def __sub__(self, other):
> 	...
> def __mul__(self, other):
> 	...
> def __truediv__(self, other):
> 	...
> ```

`ans: [def __add__(self, B); def __sub__(self, B); def __mul__(self, B); def __div__(self, B)]` (`__div__`????????????????????????)


13. Assume `x = 3`, what are the values of the following expressions, if valid?  If not valid, why not, and how can it be fixed?
- `x.__add__(2)` (Valid: `5`)
- `2.__add__(x)` (Invalid: `(2).__add__(x)`)
- `x.__add__(2.)` (Invalid: `NotImplemented`)
- `2..__add__(x)` (Valid: `5.`)


14. In the `Vector` class,

```python
 1  import operator as op
 2  class Vector:
 3      def __init__(self, *v):
 4          self._v = list(v) # covert tuple to list
 5      def __repr__(self):
 6          return __class__.__name__+repr(tuple(self._v))
 7      def __add__(self, right):
 8          return Vector(*map(op.add, self._v, right._v))
            # op.add is same as lambda x,y: x+y
 9      def __sub__(self, right):
10          return Vector(*map(op.sub, self._v, right._v))
11  x = Vector(1, 2, 3)
12  y = Vector(4, 5, 6)
13  z = x + y
14  i = id(x)
15  x += y
16  j = id(x)
17  print(i == j)
```


- When `x = Vector(1, 2, 3)` is called, what is the value of parameter `v` on line 3?

> ```python
> v = (1, 2, 3)
> ```

- What is the equivalent method syntax when line 13 `z = x + y` is executed?  In other words, the statement can be written in the form of
```python
z = object.method(arg)
```
What are the object, method, and arg? `[z = x.__add__(y)]`

> ```python
> z = x.__add__(y)
> ```

- By the time line 13 `z = x + y` finishes execution, how many times has the Vector constructor been called?

> Three times.  

- Does line 17 print `True` or `False`?  Explain.

> `False`

15. In the previous problem, Python understands how to execute line 15
```python
15  x += y
``` 
as
```python
x = x.__add__(y) 
```
So why would you ever need to overload the `__iadd__(self, other)` method?  Isn't it redundant?

> ```python
> x = x.__add__(y)
> ```
> will create an entirely new instance of `x` while `x.__iadd__(y)` does the computation in-place.  

16. Assume `x` and `y` refer to the two `Vector` instances.  In order to support the following operator syntax, what special methods must be defined in the Vector class, and what is the equivalent `object.method(args)` syntax?  Fill in the last column of the table below.

> Indexing: 
> ```python
> x.__get__(3)
> ```
> Slicing:
> ```python
> x.__get__(slice(2,5))
> ```
> Indexed assignment:
> ```python
> x.__set__(1, 5)
> ```
> Sliced assignment:
> ```python
> x.__set__(slice(0:2), (8, 6))
> ```

17. Given that binary operators `<<` and `>>` have lower precedence than binary operators `+` and `-`, and all are left associative, in what order does Python evaluate the expression
```python
m + n << p - q >> r
```
?  is it

- `((m + n) << (p - q)) >> r` (TRUE)
- `(m + (n << p)) - (q >> r)`
- `(m + n) << ((p - q) >> r)`
- `m + ((n << p) - (q >> r))`
or some other way?

18. Both `str()` and `repr()` return a string of an object.  What is their difference?  Suppose you have x = 'hello\n', what is the value of
- `list(str(x))` (Result: `['h', 'e', 'l', 'l', 'o', '\n']`)
- `list(repr(x))` (Result: `["'", h', 'e', 'l', 'l', 'o', '\\', 'n', "'"]`)
?


19. If you overload the `__len__()` special method in your `Vector` class, how does Python expect the user to call it on an instance `v`?  (Hint: not v.__len__())

> ```python
>  len(v)
> ```
