# Self Check 13

## 1. Definitions and Short Answers - functions

1. If a function is built-in, do you have to import it first, or can you just call it without importing?

> Built-in functions can be called immediately without importing.  

2. If a function is in the standard library, do you have to import it first, or can you just call it without importing?

> Standard library functions can only be called after importing its corresponding module.  

3. Which of the following are valid calls to the `eval()` function, and what are their return values?
- `eval(2 + 3)` (NO)  
- `eval('2 + 3')` (YES: 5)  
- `eval(len("hello"))` (NO)  
- `eval('len("hello")')` (YES: 5)  
- `eval('hello world')` (NO)  
- `eval('"hello world"')` (YES: 'hello world')  


4. Which of the following are valid calls to the eval() function, and what are their return values?
- Code 1:
```python
a = 5
eval('a + 3')
```

> `8`

- Code 2:
```python
a = 5
eval('a + 3', {'a': 7})
```

> `10`

- Code 3:
```python
a = 5
eval('a + 3', {})
```

> `NameError: name 'a' is not defined`


5. Is the  following a valid call to exec() function and what is the results?
```python
exec('def hello(s):\n    print(f"hello {s}")\n')
hello('Mike')
```

> ```python
> Hello Mike
> ```

6. When your Python program first starts,
```python
>>> x = 3
>>> dir()
['__annotations__', '__builtins__', '__doc__', '__loader__', '__name__', '__package__', '__spec__', 'x']
```
which shows that the name `'x'` has been added to the global name space.  However,
```python
>>> max(x, 5)
5
>>>
```
However, the name `max` is not in the global name space as shown in dir().  Which of the following is a correct explanation of how Python knows max is the name of a function that you can call?

- `max` is a keyword in Python  
- `max` is defined in the global name space but is just hidden  
- `max` is defined in the `__builtins__` name space, which is searched after the global name space (**TRUE**)  
- `max` is defined in a package in the standard library and must be imported before it can be called.


7. If you do the following
```python
>>> max, min = min, max
>>> L = [1, 7, 3, 4, 6]
>>> max(L), min(L)
```
What do you get?

> ```python
> (1, 7)
> ```


8. If you do the following
>>> L = [1, 7, 3, 4, 6]
>>> len = 'a'
>>> len(L)

- What do you get by `len(L)`?  or do you get an error?

> ```python
> TypeError: 'str' object is not callable  
> ```

- if the built-in `len()` function has been redefined to 'a', can you still get the original definition back?  If so, how? can the original len() be called?

> If `__builtins__.len = 'a'` has been performed, we can restore its original definition if we restart Python or we had previously assigned the original definiton to some variable.  
> If `len = 'a'` has been performed, we can call the original `len()` by calling `__builtins__.len()`.  

9. The `datetime` module contains the following classes
```python
datetime
date
time
timedelta
```

- Do you need to do an import statement before you can use any of the four classes above?

> Yes  

- If you see the statement
```
import datetime 
```
Does `datetime` refer to the module or class?

> The module  

- if you see the statement
```python
from datetime import *
```
What is the meaning of * ?

> Import every variable, function, and classes from the module.  

After the import statement, does `datetime` refer to the module or class?

> A class  

- If you want to import the "`datetime` class within the `datetime` module" without importing the other classes `(date, time, deltatime)`, what import statement should you use?

> ```python
> from datetime import datetime
> ```


- The constructor for the `datetime` class takes three required parameters: year, day, and hour.   What is the Python code for instantiating an object of `datetime` class with `year=2019, month=12, day=10`, and assign it to the identifier `x`?  Include also the statement for import.

> ```python
> from datetime import datetime
> x = datetime(year = 2019, month = 12, day = 10)
> ```

- The documentation says `datetime.now` is a class method that takes no parameter.   How do you call it on the `datetime` class?  If `x` is an instance of datetime from the previous question, are you allowed to call `x.now()`?

> ```python
> datetime_now = datetime.now()
> ```
>  
> Yes, calling from a `datetime` instance x is also allowed since it is a class method.  

10. Operator overloading is supported on datetime and deltatime classes.  Indicate the combinations supported by filling in the result type; or indicate if the combination is not supported.

> `timedelta` + `timedelta` = `timedelta`  
> `timedelta` - `timedelta` = `timedelta`  
> `timedelta` * `int` = `timedelta`  
> `datetime` + `datetime` = `NOT SUPPORTED`  
> `datetime` - `datetime` = `timedelta`  
> `datetime` + `timedelta` = `datetime`  
> `datetime` - `timedelta` = `datetime`  


11. In the `calendar` module,
- what is the difference between the `TextCalendar` and the `HTMLCalendar` class?

> `TextCalendar` organizes a calendar in readable texts. On the other hand `HTMLCalendar` organizes a calendar to be readable in HTML output.  

- in the TextCalendar class, what is the difference between the `prmonth()` and `formatmonth()` methods?

> `prmonth()` prints out the calendar on the screen. On the other hand, `formatmonth` outputs the string used to print out the calendar.  


12. In the namedtuple class in the collections module,

```python
>>> from collections import namedtuple
>>> Point = namedtuple('Point', ['x', 'y'])
```

- What is the type of `Point`?  Is it an instance of `namedtuple` class, or is a class?

> It is a class.  

- To continue with the example above, the next line is 
```python
>>> p = Point(2, 3)
```
What kind of object is `p`?  Is it an instance of `namedtuple` class?  an instance of `Point` class?  an instance of `tuple`?  Is it mutable?

> `p` is an instance of `Point`, that is still immutable like a tuple.  

13. In the Counter class in the collections module,
```python
>>> from collections import Counter
>>> c = Counter(['dog','cat','dog','cow','dog','cat'])
>>> c
```

- What do you expect to see?

> ```python
> Counter({'dog': 3, 'cat': 2, 'cow': 1})
> ```
- How do you find the value with the most occurrences?

> ```python
> c.most_common(1)
> ```

- How do you find the value with the least occurrences?

> ```python
> c.most_common()[-1]
> ```


14. Consider the overloaded operators defined by Counter class in the collections module, what is the value you expect from the expressions?

> `Counter('abacus') + Counter('aba') = Counter({'a' : 4, 'b' : 2, 'c' : 1, 'u' : 1, 's' : 1})`  
> `Counter('abacus') - Counter('ada') = Counter({'b' : 1, 'c' : 1, 'u' : 1, 's' : 1})`  
> `Counter('ada') + Counter('abacus') = Counter({'d' : 1})`
> `Counter('dust') & Counter('rust') = Counter({'u ' : 1, 's' : 1, 't' : 1})`
> `Counter('dust') | Counter('rust') = Counter({'d' : 1, 'u' : 1, 's' : 1, 't' : 1, 'r' : 1})`

15. In the `collections.abc` module for abstract base classes, some such base classes include `Container`, `Hashable`, `Iterable`, `Iterator`, …, `Sequence`, `MutableSequence`, etc.  
- Can you instantiate an object from one of these `abc`'s?  for example,
```python
from collections import abc
x = abc.Iterable()
```
?

> No  

- Can you test if an object is an instance of one of these abc's?  for example,
```
x = 'hello'
if isinstance(x, abc.Iterable):
    print('str is iterable')
else:
    print('str is not iterable')
``` 

> Yes  

16. In the `types` module, a number of classes are also defined, including `FunctionType`, `LambdaType`, `GeneratorType`, `MethodType`, `BuiltinFunctionType`, `ModuleType`, etc.

- Are these classes in types module also abstract base classes like those defined in `collections.abc` module?  

> No, these are variable types not classes.  

- Are you expected to use these classes for instantiation by calling their constructors?  If not, why not?  For example, is the following the expected usage
```python
>>> import types
>>> f = types.FunctionType()
```

> No. Python expects the user to define a function with the following grammar.  
> ```python
> def some_function(param):
> 	print(param)
> ```

17. What is the purpose of an enumerated type as in the Enum class in the enum module?  Consider the code
```python
 1  from enum import Enum
 2  Animal = Enum('Animal', ['ANT', 'BEE', 'CAT', 'DOG'])
 ```

- What is the value of Animal(1)?  Animal(3)?

> `Animal.ANT: 1` and `Animal.CAT: 3`

- What is the value of Animal.BEE?

> `Animal(2)`

- What is the value of str(Animal['CAT'])

> `'Animal.CAT'`

- What is the value of Animal.DOG > Animal.ANT?

> `TypeError: '>' not supported between instances of 'Animal' and 'Animal'`


18. What is the difference between the built-in float type and Decimal class in the decimal module?

- What is the value of 
```
1.1 + 2.2 == 3.3
```
?

> `False`

- Assuming you have `from decimal import Decimal`, what is the value of
Decimal('1.1') + Decimal('2.2') == Decimal('3.3')
?

> `True`

19. Assume you have `from fractions import Fraction`, what is the value of
`Fraction(16, -10)` 
?

> ```python
> Fraction(-8, 5)
> ```

20. In the `random` module,
- What are the possible values of `random.randrange(10)`?

> `1`, `2`, `3`, `4`, `5`, `6`, `7`, `8`, or `9`

- What are possible values of `random.choice(['win', 'lose', 'draw'])`?

> `'win'`, `'lose'`, or `'draw'`  

- What is the purpose of a random seed?  If you have
```python
import random
r = random.Random()
s = random.Random()
r.seed(100)
x = r.randint(1, 100)
s.seed(100)
y = s.randint(1, 100)
```
is `x == y`?

> Yes, always. 

21. In the itertools module, 
- there is a class named count, and you can use it like
```python
>>> c = itertools.count(10)
>>> next(c)
10
>>> next(c)
11
>>> next(c)
12
```
Why is this class useful, and why can't it be done with the built-in `range()`?

> It can be used to generate large numbers will the built-in `range()` requires an upperbound.  

- There is another class named cycle, and you can use it like
```python
>>> cy = itertools.cycle(['a', 'b', 'c'])
>>> next(cy)
'a'
>>> next(cy)
'b'
>>> next(cy)
'c'
>>> next(cy)
'a'
>>> next(cy)
'b'
```
Why is this class useful, and why can't it be done with the built-in `range()`?

> It can cycle back to the first element once it encounters the end of the iterable. This cannot be done with the built-in `cycle`

- There is another class named zip_longest.  Example use is
```python
>>> list(itertools.zip_longest('ABCD', 'WXY', '12', fillvalue='-'))
[('A', 'W', '1'), ('B', 'X', '2'), ('C', 'Y', '-'), ('D', '-', '-')]
```

Explain how this can be useful for adding two polynomial functions.

> Trivial. 